# FoodWise

## What is FoodWise 🤔
Foodwise is a mobile application designed to address the critical issue of household food waste in Indonesia, where research by the United Nations Statistics Division in 2019 highlighted a per capita waste of 121 kilograms, with 77 kilograms generated by households. Our app serves as a virtual food storage system, enabling users to track their food consumption by monitoring items in stock, consumed, and expired. It features a machine learning model to recommend recipes based on current inventory and a TensorFlow Lite model to detect food freshness using the device’s camera. By promoting responsible consumption and providing actionable insights, Foodwise aims to empower households to minimize food waste, contributing to a more sustainable future. Our development plan includes comprehensive backend and frontend development, integration of advanced ML and TensorFlow Lite models, thorough testing, mobile platform deployment, and ongoing support and monitoring post-launch.

## Getting Started 📱

1. Make sure your phone's android version is above 8.0 version (Android Oreo).
2. Download from .apk file from this repository release section, or using this [link](https://github.com/ecoEase/foodwise-mobile/releases/tag/v1.0.0).
3. In order to use the food freshness detection feature, you need to give permission to access phone gallery.
4. Don't forget to have proper internet connection so you don't have problem.

# Wanna run this project locally? 💻

## To run this project in your machine please follow this steps

1. Make sure in your computer already installed Android Studio
2. Clone this project
3. First time you run this project, it will be give error because this project need several API keys.
4. To add those required API keys, first create local.properties file in root project directory.
5. Add these variables and fill with your API keys and Firebase Realtime Database URL.
   ```
    BASE_URL: <Backend URL>
   ```
6. Now it's ready to run in your machine.
